# Computer-Graphics-and-Visualization

While working through this course I was tasked with taking a two dimensional image and creating a three dimensional scene
utilizing OpenGL to recreate objects, lighting, and the ability to look around the scene.

This project reinforced a key concept of putting time into planning out how a developer should approach a project. Specifically
when deciding how to recreate objects utilizing basic shapes, such as cylinders or spheres, I had to formulate an idea of what 
shapes I can utilize to replicate different objects in my scene. This is the same type of thought that goes into creating a program. I spent adequate time thinking up my plan and I set to work. My initial ideas did not come to fruition due to my unfamiliarity with the code I was developing, but the experience I gained along the way allowed me to finish out strong with a good end product.

I chose to think heavily about how my project should look and implemented one portion of it at a time. I created objects to represent objects and placed them accordingly in my scene. I colored and textured objects to match their 2d counterparts. I created lighting to give shaidng and effects similar to that of the basis image. I started with the most basic portion of creating the models, then moved into coloring them and providing lighting effects. It shows, in a visual sense, the process of developing. One should create the structure of the program and work more and more specific to implement the various capabilities of a program.

I learned that iterating through code development can help you realize that previous iterations could be updated to better support planned iterations in the future. I would complete the milestones of my project and then move to the next one and implement it. I now had multiple iterations of a 3D scene working together trying to provide a detailed rendition of an image. I got to see how well those two iterations meshed together and realized I can now tweak them independently and then see how they combine to improve the quality of my work. Progressing through development can very easily show you shortcomings or tweaks needed to previous work or work currently being implemented.

Working through this course helped me understand all of the afforementioned lessons and concepts. I might not encessarily deal with graphical work in further coursework or in my future career, but this course emphasized the development process for programs. Strong planning is helpful, but being able to work through complications and make the encessary changes to continue and succeed saved me when deciding how to create my 3D models. Working through the different iterations of coding my 3D scene hellped me realize that my previous work could be improved, which will always be a possibility when working on code fleshed out in iterations. Sometimes it turns out new iterations do not work as intended when developing programs and it is not the fault of the pre-existing code, but the code being added. Extra care should be given such that new iterations of code mesh well and are then implemented well. These couple of principles will serve me well through the end of my studies at SNHU and into my future career.
